Karreth-Wojcik-Networks-from-Panel-Data
=======================================
Scholars estimating statistical models on time-series cross-sectional data frequently use corrections to account for deviations from the assumption of independent observations, such as heteroskedastic error structures and contemporaneous correlations. Our paper shows that the techniques used to address these problems mask valuable information about interdependence between cross-sectional units, such as countries, and the diffusion of important outcomes across these units. We provide an easy-to-use network-analytic solution to uncover this information and display it for straightforward interpretation. Techniques to correct for interdependent error structures, such as panel-corrected standard errors, use covariation among residuals to weight the variance-covariance matrix of time-series cross-sectional (TSCS) models to correct for non-independent observations. We show that instead of simply using this correction, scholars can gain valuable information about interdependence and diffusion dynamics. Network analysis offers a solution to analyze the latent social structure hidden in the unexplained variance of typical TSCS models. Our approach yields interesting findings about the position of units in diffusion networks. We re-analyze five studies prominent on repression (Hafner-Burton 2005), speculative attacks (Leblang & Bernhard 2000), tariffs (Milner & Kubota 2005), economic growth (Wright 2008), and countries' membership in international organizations (Mansfield & Pevehouse 2008). In each case, we are able to uncover important information about countries' position in diffusion networks; this information is otherwise hidden in the error terms of these studies. Our findings have important implications not only for the interpretation of the aforementioned studies, but also for the larger debate between reductionist and system-level or structural theories of international relations and political economy. We also provide easy-to-use open-source software to implement our approach.
